The Joe Rogan experience. What I would do.
I was seduce people into this story and get them as obsessed as I was
like.
Pretend I'm a guy. And you're trying to pitch me.
This book in the beginning of the first years, uh,
just that the trial that had occurred that had been prosecuted by Vincent
Bugliosi had a lot of, um, malfeasance in it, uh,
by the prosecution.
I was able to document that they planted a former prosecutor on that defense
team to sabotage the defense.
I found out that two or three of the principal witnesses,
including Terry Melcher, who played a big part in this.
And we'll probably talk about that at some point, lied on the stand, you know,
suborn themselves in a, in a murder trial.
And if you commit perjury in a murder trial,
you could be convicted of murder. I mean, you could be sentenced to a murder.
You could get a murder sentence too, because of that. Uh,
so there was about a dozen of those and none of them happened all at once. So.
If you committed perjury during a murder trial,
you could be sentenced for murder for the same amount of time that someone would
get sentenced. If they murdered somebody, you.
Are subject to an actual capital,
you could be lucky you could be sent to the chair and the five people who were
convicted of murder in the first trial once had I been
around and able to prove this in the early seventies, um,
Vincent Bugliosi and the three people who lied on the stand in a
material way, you know, in a very important way,
they all could have been tried for that perjury and sentenced to the same,
uh, or given the same sentence that the people who had gotten the best sense.
Yeah. I told.
You that I just got to the 11th chapter of your book and
essentially what I'm getting so far, I haven't finished the book,
but what I'm getting so far is there was some sort of a CIA
program where they were,
explain how they did it. They,
they infiltrated these hippie communities and they allowed Charles
Manson over and over and over again to get out of jail.
They knew that he was committing all these crimes and instead of incarcerating.
Therefore when we say they who's that, yeah,
we have to kind of break it all down, let's break it all down.
One of the other things I found out that was very significant was that Manson
had a parole officer,
his first parole officer who kind of had given him a get out of jail free
card for the first year after Manson was released in prison and
Roger Smith. Yeah. And he was a criminologist in the bay area.
Manson violated his parole the day that he was released in Los Angeles.
And this is one of the, you think it's a little lie,
but it's an important lie that Vince bully OSI presented not just in a trial,
but also in his book, a trial it's much more serious. He, uh,
change the narrative. He said,
Manson had been given permission to travel to San Francisco from LA when Manson
was paroled Manson, hadn't been given that permission. He just showed up there.
They originally were going to violate them, send them right back to prison.
And someone stepped in and took care of that and let Manson
stay in San Francisco. And he was assigned to Roger Smith. Uh,
it took about a year and a half,
but through a freedom of information act process, I got his federal parole file.
And those were the kind of seeds of how I found out that Manson had this
immunity from prosecution for the two years.
He was out of prison from 67 until the murders occurred in the summer of 69.
Who I'm sorry to interrupt, but who was Smith doing this for?
Who was giving him the instructions to continue to let Manson out and to con
to continue to monitor him?
Well, that's the problem. I didn't get the whole file.
And the file I got had redactions.
He would report to the head office and they would give him instructions. Uh,
and then he would violate those instructions.
And there'd be no repercussions for him or for Manson. Uh, for instance,
Manson was arrested in July of
19 67, 3 or four months after he got out of prison when he was under Roger Smith
supervision for, um, interfering with an officer, uh,
who was trying to arrest one of his first young followers,
Ruth at Morehouse who was 15. And he was put in jail,
uh, pled out. So he got a three-day sentence,
a new probation sentence as well. And all that was hidden.
Like it's not in bullying this book, uh, the,
the parole officer Roger Smith a week later wrote to the head office at
Manson was doing fine.
And he actually recommended that Manson be allowed to go to Mexico and work in
Mexico and the head parole office in the United States since it's federal wrote
back. And they said, that's insane. He was supposed to,
the job that he was going to do in Mexico was surveying, um,
soil for insect insecticides. I mean, it had nothing to do with,
I have all these documents show who was hiring.
Him, Charles Manson to survey soil.
Uh, it was a company in Nevada which disappeared a couple of years later.
Um, so it was a company, I believe so. Yeah, they were doing down there. I see,
that's it. I don't like to speculate cause I can't prove it.
All I know is just the fact that his parole officer asked to send them not only
to Mexico,
but to the country that Manson had been deported from a 1959.
The last time he was a free man. He had violated his parole.
Then he was arrested in Mexico. Right.
He was arrested in Mexico and brought over by the federal rallies and given over
to federal custody, uh, for, uh, I was a drug violation and,
and some other stuff.
So why would his parole officer send them back to this place three months
after he'd been released and how do you supervise somebody who's in another
country?
Can I make a summary just for people that like, what the is going on right now?
Uh, essentially what you're saying is that Charles Manson was a part of some
sort of a program and that through this program,
they were using him and using with
LSD and all the members of the family,
they were turning them violent. And why,
why do you think they were doing this.
Again? This is where I got to reel it in a little bit. Understand. Okay. Um,
I have to be real careful about not saying anything that I haven't been able to
prove.
What I've proven is that he was getting leniency from the federal
government and the, uh,
law enforcement first in San Francisco that year,
the person who represented the federal government, there was his parole officer,
Roger Smith, the federal parole officer who was giving him leniency.
Roger was also doing drug research at the Haight Ashbury free medical clinic,
which opened in June of 67 Manson.
During that period turned into the Manson that we're familiar with today.
You know, the monster,
the embodiment of evil has been slowly OSI called him the guru who could
control the minds of these followers.
So he would come into the clinic to see Roger. Well,
he went for two reasons that it was a free clinic.
It was at the height of the summer of love, the summer of 67. And, um,
he would come in with the women, the girls,
we had about five or six followers then, and they would walk behind him.
They wouldn't speak unless he spoke to them,
any command he issued towards them, they would follow.
And they became very well known around the clinic and they were there
principally for, uh,
Manson to see Roger for his weekly parole appointments.
And then the girls were going in for STDs and there were some pregnancies and
stuff and they were getting free treatment.
That was the summer that the Manson family formed.
And then they left in late 67, early 68,
and migrated down to Los Angeles and became this killer cult.
It's crazy how quickly this all happened. It's insane how quickly it happened.
I don't understand.
We're talking about two years, we're talking about 67. Manson is in Haight,
Ashbury 69, the Tate LaBianca murders and then the trial. And then,
then everything else two years is the speculation that Charlie Manson
was basically just sort of a two bit criminal who had spent most of his life
inside the system and, uh, had been incarcerated for what half of his life.
Half of his life, when he was released about age 32 and 67,
all federal institutions too, which was interesting,
even bully OSI pointed that out in his book. Um, first of all,
his mother was a prostitute. She kind of,
she would get sentenced to jail for petty theft or prostitution,
and she'd hand them off to her parents or other people.
And by the time he was 10, 11 years old, he was stealing cars,
committing petty theft and stuff. So then he was sent to, um,
you know, juvenile detention centers and schools, uh,
reformed schools all run by the federal government.
And then when he committed his first crime as an adult, uh, which was again,
car theft, the first, um, crimes required that, but when he stole the cars,
he'd cross state lines. So then it became a federal offense and he got, uh,
in prison with much more serious sentences if it's a federal offense.
And if it's a state and he do these long sentences back to back to back,
and then every time he was released, he either violate his parole or probation.
And they were actually strict with him in the fifties and early well, till 60,
when he finally went to prison for seven years, it wasn't until 67.
When he came out that all of a sudden it was hands off. Now.
What do you think happened.
In prison? Did they find him in prison? Well, again,
I'll go there with you. Okay. And I kind of lay out the book is,
and I got criticism for this, um,
which we know was a good possibility as I lay out
circumstantial evidence for a case with proof of each
circumstance. But when you put them all together,
that's the hardest part is linking them, finding the bridges. Um,
what I do is show what the objectives were of an,
either the federal government's case through MK ultra, and then other programs,
COINTELPRO and chaos,
and the law enforcements in Los Angeles and San Francisco at the time.
So, um, MK ultra began in the,
in the federal prisons experiments on prisoners famously or
notoriously Whitey Bulger. I don't know if you've heard about this, but, um,
a few years ago it was revealed that Whitey Bolger had been a part of MK ultra
experimentation in the fifties when he was incarcerated.
And after he was convicted,
he was claiming that he believed that all of his violence
was a product of what had happened to him in prison when he was experimented
upon with LSD through these scientists.
So theoretically Manson was in the prime place where the
experiments were occurring in prisons before he was released in 67 in
federal institutions. They couldn't do it in the.
Did Manson ever talk about any experiments that took place? Turn print? No,
never.
No, no. He, he, you know, I actually have a, uh,
his not only his federal parole file, which was the hardest thing to get,
because it had never been released from 67 to 69.
But I also have the one prior to that from the fifties to the sixties and all
the correspondence.
And he would talk about these doctors coming in to examine him and he didn't
trust them and he didn't know what they were doing, and this was late fifties.
Um, and unfortunately he never had the first names for the doctors.
There were two, one of them was Dr. Hartman.
I can't remember the other one's name.
There was a Mortimer Hartman in Los Angeles who was one of the early
psychiatrists using LSD in the fifties,
Cary Cary grant was one of his patients. Um,
so theoretically
he could have come out of the program or the experimentation that began
there. Um, but, uh, you know, I hate to even, I rather, and again,
it's hard to kind of synopsize all this without showing all the documentation
and stuff of what was going on and where he was and how everything matches up.
But you'll see that when you get through chapter 11.
Okay. So I wish I got to it, but you know,
it's a rush to get to that far. So 1967,
he gets out of jail and he,
how long before he hooks up with this clinic?
Uh, so he got out in March of 67.
The clinic opened in June of 67. So just a few months. Yeah. Well,
Roger Smith, he was actually living in Berkeley. Manson was,
and he got his first follower, Mary Bruner, and then two or three or four more.
And then Roger was the one who suggested that he go to the hate to absorb the
vibes. He thought Manson might benefit from the love and peace fives that were
happening in the summer of love.
Your Smith was his parole officer in 67,
but also was his parole officer before that was that proven.
N well, no, Roger Smith's well, his assistant that's good. You remember that?
Gail Sedalia told me she was his assistant at the clinic at the Haight Ashbury
free medical clinic when he was running his amphetamine study, uh, um, in,
in 68,
she said that Roger had told her he met Manson when he was doing
probation work in Illinois in
the early sixties. Uh,
I eventually interviewed Roger several times and Roger denied that.
And when I went back to gal, she was shocked. She was like,
I can't believe he's denying that that was a connection he met.
That's why Manson was able to leave Los Angeles. He was sent to Roger Smith.
So Roger could be his parole officer.
I was never able to document that Bateson had been in
Illinois except for three days from in 61 or excuse me,
in 61, he was brought from Mexico to Texas.
And then they brought him to Los Angeles to be violated in front of the judge
there. Uh,
and he did spend three days at Joliet prison where Roger Smith worked,
but he was there a year or two later. So that was one of the,
one of the many frustrating moments where everything made sense,
except for one but one very important, um,
whole, which was, well, they weren't there at the time,
at least as far as the official record. Yeah. So.
If Smith was a part of these experiments and Smith was also
his parole officer and did know him before he did the seven years
before he got out,
which is when it's speculated that Manson was possibly experimented on
and Smith might've been aware of the entire process of it and was supervising
him upon his release. Yeah.
So that's why every time Manson got arrested,
which should have just locked him up, they would just let them go. Yeah.
Yeah. And, and Smith, I mean, to give you a little background on Smith, uh,
as he told me, he called himself, he goes, I was a rock rock,
rib Republican from the Midwest. And I came out, he went to Berkeley,
uh, to the school of criminology to, to become a criminologist.
I think in 65 or 66,
he was getting his masters and his PhD and his special area
of study was in the beginning, gangs,
collective behavior and violence.
And then how drugs would make some of these gangs that he had
people who was working with infiltrate students infiltrate, um,
to get information. Yeah, this wasn't an Oakland and the ghettos in like 65, 66,
when the Panthers were forming, then in 60,
late 66,
he decided to become a federal parole officer while he was still writing his
dissertation. And he, um,
got assigned to something called the San Francisco project,
which was an experimental program run by the federal government
to see how different, um,
numbers of parole clients caseload's for per parole
officer were, you know, you know, supervision. It was about recividism.
So if you had the lowest load was 20 clients,
the largest was like 50 or 60. Were you able to super, I mean,
you wouldn't think that 50 or 60 is going to be a lot more difficult,
but it always wasn't.
So Smith joined that program where he's supposed to be paying much more
attention and care to his clients. Uh,
because as part of a special program called the San Francisco project.
And in fact he was, I mean, he was,
he was seeing Manson more than he was even officially supposed to
things, you know, it gets even crazier. Uh, after 68,
he stopped being his parole officer.
He was actually removed and he said it was voluntarily.
So he could focus more on his drugs and violence research at the clinic. Uh,
Manson's three or four women followers got arrested and Mendocino.
They had Lord a couple of young boys into a house, given them LSD there.
Manson had sent them out up to Mendocino to recruit people for the family.
The three women were four women were arrested.
One of the Mary Bruner had the first baby with Manson and the group and
Roger Smith and his wife,
Carol went up to Mendocino and petition the court to take foster
custody of the child until Mary was, um,
until her case was resolved. So they were the foster parents of Manson's son.
I mean, everything was irregular about this,
that actually that case is pretty interesting. So Mary Bruner and Susan Atkins,
two women who actually killed for Manson in 1969 were, um,
given,
they were convicted of contributing to the delinquency of minor is illegal drug
possession. And, uh, without a trial, they pled out, uh,
and then there was a,
what they call the sentencing phase where a probation officer is assigned to
decide whether or not they should be sent to prison or give them probation
supervised probation. So, um,
I got access to their files, pruners and Atkins,
and in the file where recommendations to the court by Roger Smith and his wife
saying these are good women, they shouldn't go to prison. Um,
Susan Atkins, who, you know, stabbed Sharon Tate and.
Proven cause she said it, and then she.
Went back and forth and back and forth. Yeah. Is it proven?
Cause Tex Watson clearly was.
A murderer. Right. And so.
She had said that Tex did it, she couldn't do it, but this was later on.
Yeah. First her first accounts were that she did it.
And then when she testified to the grand jury, she said that she didn't do it.
She held Sharon while tech stabbed her later in prison.
She said that she did do it. And then she changed again,
she'd go back and forth. But she was pretty brutal. And, uh,
Mary Bruner and Susan Atkins were given probation instead of being sentenced,
partially based on Roger Smith's recommendation,
Roger Smith identified himself as a former parole officer, you know,
with his expertise.
And he said he had known both of them for two years and which was also a
lie. He had only known Susan. He couldn't have known Susan for two years.
He knew her for about a year. He didn't know Mary pretty well.
Um, and he never disclosed that he was Manson's parole officer.
And Manson's identified in the same files as the person who Lord these women
into crime, that they were his communal wives that they would steal for him,
prostitutes themselves for him. And the other people that they interviewed,
the probation officer argued against it saying,
they're going to go right back to this guy who's down in Los Angeles and
continue the life of crime. But the judge released them.
Now this was, they were doing Charlie's bidding.
According to the, the record,
what they were trying to do was recruit people into the family.
And so they would offer them drugs and, and, and uh,
sex and a lot of women and bring them to these parties and where they screwed up
is they got an underage boy who was right.
And he was the son of.
A local sheriff. Yeah. He said, his legs turned into snakes. Yeah.
That's when they screwed up in that situation. And that's.
How they got arrested that time. And still they got released. Yeah.
Which is really crazy. It's like,
there's so many of these instances where Charlie or members of the
family were arrested.
And then it seemed like the police officers who were holding them were
being told, Hey,
you got to let these guys go there's this is a higher situation.
Is above your pay.
Yeah. Well,
a real turning point in my reporting was after I got access to Manson's parole
file and saw that, I mean, helter-skelter bully OSI,
I think describes to arrest that Manson got released on
technicalities, you know,
shoddy police work or something when he should have been violated.
But what he didn't do was talk about three or four more.
And if you've gotten up to chapter 10, you've seen all that stuff laid out.
So when I got this record, a pretty substantial record,
I took it to someone named Louis walk neck,
who was a retired judge and retired district attorney from the valley out
around here, van Nuys. Um,
cause I needed somebody with the expertise and the knowledge of how things
worked because you have to look at everything in context,
things work at differently today than they did in 2009 or
2000 when I interviewed him. But he was there in 69 in the DA's office.
I brought the documents to him and we laid them all out on his
kitchen table and he's looking at them. And the poor guy was, um,
very sick with cancer and he talked like this,
but I had the recorder going and he's looking at all the documents and he's
seeing this pattern of catch release, catch release, and he's gone chicken,
chicken. This is all chicken. He goes, he shouldn't,
he should have gone back the first time he goes, they wanted him out. He said,
he that he was more important to somebody out than in. He goes,
you've got to find out who it was. And I go up, how do I do that? And he goes,
you're not going to be able to that's he's an informant. I go, but who should I,
what should I look at? He goes, well,
he was working either for local law enforcement, uh, the federal government,
the FBI, but somebody wanted him out there doing whatever he was doing.
So that was important.
Another turning point was a bunch of years later was when I brought similar
materials to Stephen K, who was bully OCS co prosecutor in the case.
Can I stop you for a second? So the speculation,
his speculation was that Charlie was an infant. Well.
And again, I'm informed informant has many definitions.
It's not just informing on crime. It also can be doing the police is bidding.
That's where the CIA or the CIA or the FBI.
Part of a program where they're allowing this.
And also there's speculation that the,
the goal was to try to diminish the anti-war movement.
And this guy was a part of the hippie movement.
And then so now people would associate hippies with violence and drugs and
murder and all this.
[Inaudible].